CAL  PAGE

15 Kodiak Road - Brookline, New Hampshire  03033
603-673-9403	page.cal@gmail.com

Summary

 I am an Embedded and Firmware Software Engineer with a deep background in Linux (on 
 x86, arm, ppc) although I've worked with smaller environments such as Atmel and 
 8051 as well. All my projects ship on time and are high quality. I've worked in 
 small, medium, and large groups and I get up to speed quickly in any environment.

QUALIFICATIONS

 Accomplished, seasoned Professional with extensive and proven success in Software 
 and Web Development, as well as expertise in embedded and real-time software, tool 
 development, communications, drivers, diagnostics and databases. Exceptional communication 
 skills; easily interacts with executives, clients, vendors, contractors and coworkers. 
 Superior troubleshooting skills, diagnosing and resolving critical and complex issues. 
 Extensive repertoire of product experience.

COMPUTER  SKILLS

 Software: Drivers, Logic Simulation, Diagnostics, Applications Software, Systems 
 Software, Databases, Software QA, Micro-Code, Networks, Performance and Benchmarks, 
 Kernel Programming, Multi-Processor Kernels, SCSI Bus, and Diagnostics

 Operating Systems: Real-time, Time-sharing, Transaction- processing, Linux, UNIX 
 System 5, SCO UNIX, SCO ODT, UNIX, ULTRIX, HPUX 10. x, AIX 4. x, PC-DOS, Alpha OSF, 
 OSF-1, Microsoft NT 3. 5 and 4. 0, Windows 95 and 98, VMS, RT11, RSX, DOS, TOPS, RSTS, 
 pSOS, Wind River UNIX, ELX, and ELN, SUN OS and Solaris

 Languages: MACRO-32 for VAX, MACRO-11 for PDP11, Intel 80486, Pentium COBOL, DIBOL, 
 FORTRAN, PASCAL, C, ANSI C, C++, LISP, PHP, PROLOG, BLISS-16, BLISS-32, BASIC, BASIC-Plus-2, 
 Windows 3, MS Windows, VB. net, X11, PERL 4, PERL 5, FORTH, BASH, SH, CSH, KSH, JAVA, 
 JDBC, JNI, Notes / LotusScript, pthreads, and threads

 Firmware: Atmel, MicroVAX, VAX,Z80, 8080, 80186, 80x86, 8051, PDP-11 processors

 Databases: IBM DB2, MS SQL., Sleepycat DB, Netscape LDAP Directory Server

 Java: RAD including IBM Visual Age / Java and Symantec VC / Java, for version 1. 1. 6 
 of the Java Language; Sun JDK 1.1.6, JDK 1.2 and BDK; JNI and JDBC

PROFESSIONAL  EXPERIENCE

VideoIQ Corporation, Bedford, MA - 9/1/08-1/9/09
Software Consultant – Contract/Oxford

 Developed a software interface in 'C' on 2. 6 Linux using I2c to interface to a NXP 
 Video Encoder, Model SAA7136.  This part encoded incoming video from security cameras 
 to an analytics module. Added email to the camera using libesmtp with TLS to notify 
 customers of detected alarms.  Assisted in programming a Texas Instruments DSP, 
 Model TSM320DM6437 to preprocess video signals. Modified the 2. 6 Linux kernel to 
 delay IDE disk spin-up if ambient temperatures were below a threshold. Backported 
 and evaluated NAND YAFFS and UBIFS files systems from 2. 6. 27 and Google ANTROID 
 for use on the camera. Also performed  miscellaneous software maintenance including 
 rate limiting video capture.

Teradyne – North Reading, MA - 1/20/08 – 8/30/08	 
Software Consultant – Contract/Oxford

 Developed two embedded applications within the Linux environment to interface test 
 data flow between components.

Gentex Corporation, Manchester, New Hampshire	9/5/07 – 1/15/08
Software Consultant – Contract/Oxford

 The product was an intercom system to be deployed on Coast Guard Cutters. Each hardware 
 node was based on the Blackfin FPGA running Linux 2. 6. 11/uboot connected to an Ethernet. 
 A codec would convert speech to binary data and this would be transmitted over the 
 network to the receiving station where it would be converted back to audio. My specific 
 tasks included:Writing a high speed real time network stack for Linux. This included 
 kernel modifications as well as a loadable module to do tasklet level data processing. 
 Also include was a /proc interface to monitor performance. Integrating and testing 
 VOX, PTT, and LSS audio conditioning software. Providing a test console to speed 
 development. Re-architect and implement a fast and efficient in-band control message 
 sub-system.Perform Q/A testing.

 Supporting hardware engineers to provide FPGA and CODEC test code such as tone generators 
 etc. Provide structure to the development process by instituting the CVS code management 
 system.

 When I started with the project, it had failed alpha level testing and was late on 
 delivery. Voice would sputter and often fail to get through from node to node.  
 After major architectural changes, and hard work, the system would support all required 
 32 nodes with only one percent of the 100 mb network in use. When I left, we had 
 successfully shipped and installed our first units.

Fidelity, Merrimack, New Hampshire - 6/18/07 – 9/16/07
Software Consultant – Contract/Veritude

 Performed System Administration on over 1200 Linux boxes throughout the corporation. 
 This included occasional troubleshooting as well as disk and network administration.

Doble Engineering Services, Watertown, Massachusetts - 2005 - 2007
Software Consultant - Contract

 Performed all software engineering tasks for a new product, the MCM. This unit is 
 used by electrical power utility companies, and accurately tests and measures the 
 Power Factor between a test voltage and a reference source. The test box contained 
 two processors: an x86 and a PowerPc. Both processors ran variations of Linux. I 
 was responsible for architecture design, implementation, and testing for all software 
 on both processors, including kernel level changes, drivers, and application software. 
 Further details include:The x86 processor was responsible for driving an LCD display, 
 running a state engine to communicate with the PowerPc, and accepting front panel 
 keypad input. The LCD display with driven through X11 and then GTK2 with a C/C++ 
 interface. The state engine was coded in the Forth language. The front panel keyed 
 input was managed through the bidirectional parallel port, from a user-space thread. 
 The application included internationalization support (including CJK with the Pinyin 
 input method for Simplified Chinese). The PowerPC software communicated with the 
 x86 through a network socket, and was responsible for driving the analog board, 
 collecting A/D data, then processing this A/D data, and reporting results back to 
 the x86. The embedded PowerPC used uBoot for system startup, and ran with a modified 
 BusyBox environment. The FIR filter, brought forward from another product, was augmented 
 by adding an FFT transform algorithm. I was the software lead on a second test box, 
 the M4U. This product was a high end extension of the previous test box because 
 it performed many functions automatically, including generating high voltages used 
 for testing, and an automated test sequences. I was responsible for the architectural 
 work and designing the package. Along with coding much of the package, I also directed 
 other software engineers. Other details include:Timesys Linux was run in a PowerPC 
 in an embedded environment. A major portion of the work included a multi-threaded 
 application written in 'C'. Additional work included a patch package, a test package, 
 and debugging packages. A Forth style console was implemented to speed all phases 
 of testing and debug. I code reviewed, rewrote, and then patched 8051 microcode for 
 an auxiliary processor written in 'C'. This processor was used by the M4U to control 
 high voltages generated by the box.

Stratus Computer, Maynard, Massachusetts - 2004 - 2005
Linux Software Consultant - Contract

 Added FiberChannel external disk support to the Stratus Hardened, high reliability 
  2. 4 Kernel drivers and loadable modules. . The Stratus modifications add High-Availability 
 features to the kernel. With disks for example, any disk may be pulled or fail without 
 warning with no data loss overall. When the disk is re-added, data is resynchronized 
 real-time. Also, persistent device naming was added to the SCSI mid-layer in support 
 of these features. This work required detailed knowledge of linux internals including 
 semaphores, kernel threads, and loadable modules. Performed kernel software engineering 
 and design tasks for migrating from kernel revision 2. 4 to 2. 6, and from Redhat 
 to SUSE distros. This included evaluation of newer features including multpath support, 
 udev, sysfs, as well as a detail study of the differenced between 2. 4 and 2. 6 drivers.

THE RESUME CONTINUES AT http://natdem.com/resume for further information.

EDUCATION

RIVIER COLLEGE, Nashua, New Hampshire
Master of Business Administration, 1990

UNIVERSITY OF MAINE, Orono, Maine
Bachelor of Science in Physics, 1971

